# QueueSong
Title: The In and Out of Queues

Author: Michael Webber

  When I first started thinking about this project, I was really debating whether to create an educational video or if I should just stick with a calm and soothing study song. After much deliberation I realized that I didn’t take Fundamentals of Music last year just for the fun of it. I thought it would be interesting to use what I learned in that class and apply it to this new project. I initially created my piece in a songwriting application called MuseScore, which I had used previously. This made it easy for me to quickly write a song where I could listen to it and alter it to ensure that it sounded good. 
  
  With that, I began to think about the underlying notes of the piece. These were played on the first and third beat of every measure and continued through the whole song. I wanted the song to feel complete and cyclical, so the first eight measures before the chorus are mirrored by the eight measures that occur after the chorus. I then moved on to the chords that would be played along with the underlying notes. These chords followed the major/minor progressions that we had discussed in my music theory course. Additionally, the note that is played underneath is a part of the chord being played, but an octave lower. These chords are also mirrored around the chorus of the song. I then had to think about the lyrics. I wanted them to be funny and light, while adding a little bit of relevant information about queues. The moral was that queues can be difficult, but in the end, they will be useful.
  
  After all of this was done, I had to transport everything I wrote in MuseScore into Sonic Pi, which was a tedious task. Although I had everything laid out in front of me, I had to go back and forth between the two platforms to check individual notes and make sure my rests were aligned correctly. However, As I mentioned earlier, the first half is mirrored by the second half, so once I completed the first half in code, all I needed to do was copy that for the second half. The beats of the lyrics did not mirror, so I was unfortunately not able to copy and paste that aspect. If I was starting over, I would have made functions for the measures before the chorus so that they could be called in the second half of the piece instead of having to rewrite the same code, but I was far too deep into the project when I realized I should have done this.
  
  Once everything was finished being written, I recorded both pieces and converted them into mp3 files. This allowed me to use a third app called Superstring where I was able to put lyrics on a page for the song being played. They appear in a karaoke style. Once I put the words in to match the beat, I exported this file to iMovie so that I could overlap the choir noises and  the background piano, all while having the karaoke video appear. The video turned out pretty good, although I wish there was a better way to produce the choir noises within Sonic Pi. During my final recording of the piece, I did not do any live coding.
